Now that we have our simple UI here,
the next thing we want to do is make it so the user can add
new Todo items as well as new goals from the UI itself.
So the first thing we're going to do,
is let's go in here and just comment out all of these dispatch invocations.
So that way the only way that we are updating the state of
the store is from the UI as I just barely mentioned.
But we want to keep these around,
just so we can reference them a little bit later when
we do start dispatching things from the UI.
Now, the first thing we're going to do is make
two different functions that are hooked up to both of our buttons here.
So our Add Todo button as well as our Add Goal button.
So what these functions will be called, very fittingly,
we will have an addTodo function,
and then we will make an addGoal function.
So let's start off with addTodo.
The very first thing we want to do,
is we want to grab the value of this input field here.
So if you remember,
what we did was we gave this input an Id of Todo.
So first thing we want to do is just grab the input by saying, document.getElementById,
and then we want to grab the name or the value in the input field by doing input.value.
From there, we want to reset the input value just to an empty string.
And then now we have the name of the new Todo item.
The next thing we want to do is actually dispatch an action.
So if you remember, in order to add a new Todo to our store,
what we do is we dispatch an action that looks like this.
Invoking our addTodo action creator,
passing it the Todo item itself.
So what we'll do here down below is something similar where we can say, store.dispatch.
Now we want to invoke our addTodoAction,
and then the Todo item itself is going to have three things on it: a name,
which we have right here it's just the value in the input field.
A complete property which will default to false
and then an Id and then now what we're going to do
for Ids is I'm going to head to the top of our JavaScript's code here,
and just paste in this helper function here called generateId.
So instead of hard coding the Ids,
we can call this function which we'll go ahead and generate us a unique Id.
So now, Id is just going to be the result of calling generateId.
So now inside of our addGoal function,
we're going to do something similar.
So we will first grab the input field,
but this time where we're going to get it from is
going to be document.getElementById('goal'),
then we want to grab the name of the goal by doing input.value.
We want to reset the input value to just be an empty string.
And then now in order to add a new goal to our state,
what we need to dispatch is the addGoalAction,
like we did right here.
So what we'll do is we will say
store.dispatch(addGoalAction( passing it the goal itself which will have an Id.
We'll reuse our generate Id function that we created earlier,
then we'll also pass along the name.
So now that we have our addTodo function as well as our addGoal function,
the next thing we need to do is actually hook them up
to our buttons so that when these buttons are clicked,
these functions are invoked.
So we can do that by assigning document.getElementById('todoBtn').
Because again, if you're a member up here,
this button has an id of 'todoBtn' and this one has an id of 'goalBtn'.
So back down at the bottom,
we grab that button.
Then from there, we can call addEventListener.
So when this button is clicked on and we want to invoke the addTodo function right here,
and then we want to do the exact same thing but for our addGoal functions.
So will say, document.getElementById('goalBtn').
And then when this is clicked,
we want to invoke the addGoal function.
So now what we should be able to do is if we head back over to our app and hit refresh,
we can come in here and add a brand new Todo item,
let's say, walk the dog.
And when we hit "Add Todo",
you'll notice in our console what happened was we got this console.log right here.
And if you forgot,
the reason that we're getting that is because of this line right here.
We said whatever the store changes,
go ahead and invoke this function which is just going to log the new state.
So now, our new state looks like this.
We have the Todo item here,
and we can also come in here and add a new Goal.
We'll say Learn Redux,
and now we have one Todo as well as one Goal.
But both of those new items are being generated from our UI
now rather than just invoking dispatch inside of our console.